                                              Rdbms Day4


Difference between mysql and mongodb:


S.No.		Key		MySQL					MongoDB

1	Owned/Developed By	MySQL is owned by Oracle.		MongoDB is developed by MongoDB Inc.

2	Data Storage	        MySql stores data in tabular		MongoDB stores records as documents.
                                format as records in table.

3	Language		SQL, Structured Query Language		Dynamic Schema. Predefined structure
				is used to query database.		is defined for incoming data.

4	Design Objectives	No efficient replication and 		High availability, Scalability, Replication 
				Sharding available.			 and Sharding are inbuilt.

5	Terms			MySQL uses Table, Row, 			MongoDB uses Collection, Document, Field,
				columns,joins etc.			Embedded Document, Linking etc.
				

6	Data Storage		MySQL stores data in forms 		MongoDB stores data in form of JSON like documents.
				of records in table.


Advantages of MongoDB:

1)Speed & Efficiency. 
The ability to manage huge unstructured data is a key advantage MongoDB has over MySQL. ...

2)Replication.
 MongoDB is just supporting master-slave replication. To make multiple copies of the data, it utilizes replica sets.

3)Flexibility of Schema. 
The fact that there are no limitations on schema design is the greatest advantage to MongoDB. ...

4)Querying Language. 
The unstructured query language is used by MongoDB. To create a query in JSON documents, you need to define a document with a property that you want the ...

5)Sharding. 
MongoDB sharding has the potential to divide a collection into sub-sets of data to store them through several shards.

6)Relationships. 
MongoDB does not support JOIN. On the other hand, multi-dimensional forms of data such as arrays and even other documents are supported by MongoDB.

7)Security.
 MongoDB makes use of role-based access control with a versatile range of privileges. Authentication, auditing, 
and authorization are among the security features in this database.


use case:

1) single view:
A Single View application aggregates data from multiple sources into a central repository to create a single view of anything.

2)payments:

As payment platforms compete to outscale the competition, it’s crucial they also offer a flexible, real-time, and enriched customer experience.
From consumer brands to corporations, industry leaders choose MongoDB to form the backbone of their always on, always secure, always available payments platform.

3)content management:
MongoDB can incorporate any type of data, no matter what it looks like or where it comes from, while providing all the features needed to build content-rich apps.

4)catalog:

Customers want your business on their smartphone. And they expect it to get better weekly. Too bad your RDBMS makes it hard to iterate constantly.
 And it wasn’t built to support millions of users, either.With MongoDB, you can build killer mobile apps that scale to millions of users. Faster. With less money.




	 
									

				